Moro Game Console Specification
===============================

Version: 0.1.1

Last Modified: Tue, 23 Apr 2013 19:43:13 +0000

Authors: C Nelson, C Nelson, C Nelson, C Nelson

The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT",
"SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this
document are to be interpreted as described in RFC 2119.

Software
--------

Implementations of this specification MUST use GNU/Linux.

It is RECOMMENDED to use a Debian-based distribution, but most
distributions will work.

Implementations MUST also use X11. It is RECOMMENDED to use XOrg.

Implementations SHOULD have a very basic window manager, configured such
that normal applications will be displayed fullscreen and with no window
decorators. The reference implementation will use DWM
(http://dwm.suckless.org/).

When started, the OS SHOULD automatically mount any mass storage drives
that are connected.

The mass storage drives SHOULD be mounted according to their filesystem
labels following the pattern "/media/".

The filesystem containing the main executable MUST be labeled "app".
Additional mass storage drives SHOULD be labeled with meaningful names,
but they will not be used directly.

The auxilliary drives MAY be used for cached data files, cartridge-local
game saves, or other application data.

After mounting, the OS MUST attempt to execute "/media/app/launcher".

The file MUST be executable.

Its current/working directory SHOULD be "~".

Hardware
--------

Cartridge

There MAY be only one mass storage drive in the cartridge. Any
additional drives in the cartridge SHOULD be used by the application
itself, and will not be automatically used by the operating system.

Console

Slot

The Slot is the opening that receives game cartridges.

The Slot MUST be at least, 10cm long, 2cm wide, with a minimum depth of
2cm, and a maximum depth of 4cm.

The connectors between the console and the cartridge SHOULD be out of
sight during normal usage.

Cartridge Connectors

There are two connectors supported for connecting cartridges.

USB

There MUST be two female USB connectors on either end of the area
immediately below the slot.

They MUST be offset toward the center of the slot by 1cm from either
side.

They MUST also be aligned vertically, with the long edge of the USB
connector aligned with the short edge of the slot.

GPIO

In the dead center of the area immediately below the slot, there SHOULD
be a bank of 26 (2x13) female pin headers. If present, they MUST be
0.1"-spaced.

There MAY be more than 26 female pin headers, but they must be the same
spacing and extend on either side as an addition to the primary bank of
26. If present, the additional banks MUST NOT have any space between it
and the primary bank of headers.
